
HOWTO - Pegasus comiler usage

K. Schopmeyer (15 Feb 2002)

The Pegasus MOF compiler is a command line utility that compiles MOF files
(using the MOF format defined by the DMTF CIM Specification) into a Pegasus
repository. It allows compiling from strucutures of MOF files using the
include pragma and can either compile into a Pegasus repository or simply
perform a syntax check on the MOF files.

In the syntax check mode, it checks each class independently and does not do
semantic checks between classes (ex. check for super-classes, etc.). When
compiling into a Pegasus repository, the compiler uses Pegasus to install the
classes and instances into the repository and uses the semantic checking built
into Pegasus.

The compiler operates standalone in the syntax checking mode but requires the
Pegasus libraries when compiling into a Pegasus respository.

The compiler requires that the input MOF files be in the current directory
or that a fully qualified path be given.  MOF files included using
#pragma include must be in the current directory or in a directory specified
by a -I command line switch.

The compiler assumes that the file extension is .mof if it is not specified.
(This feature is not yet implemented.)

The actual configuration and type of repository created depends on the
characteristics of the repository implemented in Pegasus. 
See the description of the Pegasus repositories for more information.

There are actually two compiler executable files.

cimof.exe - This file operates through the client interface and acts as a
remote compiler against an active CIM Repository
cimmofl.exe - This file operates locally and directly against the repository.

       cimmof -w -Rtestrepository -I./MOF MOF/CIMSchema25.mof
       cimmofl -w -Rtestrepository -I./MOF MOF/CIMSchema25.mof


Compile the mof file defined in the directory MOF with the name CIMSchema25.mof
and with include pragmas for other MOF files also in that directory and create
the repository testrepository


NAME

	cimmof - Compile DMTF CIM MOF

SYNOPSIS
	cimmof [OPTION]... [FILE]...
	
DESCRIPTION

The MOF compiler TBD

OPTIONS
-h, --help	Print out usage message with command line definitions.

-E  		Perform only a syntax check on the input and creates no 					repository.  Inthis mode, the compiler does not do the sematic checks that are done when a CIM object is\
 		ded to a repository

-w  		Suppresses warning messages.

-R<path> - 	Specifies the path to the repository to be written. This is an
		alternative to the PEGASUS_HOME environment variable. If 
		PEGASUS_HOME is set the repository gets written to 
		$PEGASUS_HOME/repository. The -R flag one the command line
		overrides this with <path> specified in the directive.
		Specify an absolute  or relative path.

--CIMRepository=<path>

-I<path>  	Specifies the path to included MOF files. If the inputmof file 
		has include pragmas and the included files  do not reside in 
		the current directory, the -I directive must be used to specify 
		a path to them on the compiler command line. Do this with 
		the -I flag.

	cimmof -I~/testfiles ~/testfiles/main.mof

The path may be relative or absolute.
